"mmap" --- Suporte a arquivos mapeados na memória
*************************************************

======================================================================

Disponibilidade: não Emscripten, não WASI.

Este módulo não funciona ou não está disponível em plataformas
WebAssembly "wasm32-emscripten" e "wasm32-wasi". Veja Plataformas
WebAssembly para mais informações.

Objetos arquivo mapeados na memória se comportam como "bytearray" e
como *objetos arquivo*. Você pode usar objetos mmap na maioria dos
lugares onde "bytearray" é esperado; por exemplo, você pode usar o
módulo "re" para pesquisar um arquivo mapeado na memória. Você também
pode alterar um único byte executando "obj[index] = 97" ou alterar uma
subsequência atribuindo a uma fatia: "obj[i1:i2] = b'...'". Você
também pode ler e gravar dados começando na posição atual do arquivo e
"seek()" através do arquivo para diferentes posições.

A memory-mapped file is created by the "mmap" constructor, which is
different on Unix and on Windows.  In either case you must provide a
file descriptor for a file opened for update. If you wish to map an
existing Python file object, use its "fileno()" method to obtain the
correct value for the *fileno* parameter.  Otherwise, you can open the
file using the "os.open()" function, which returns a file descriptor
directly (the file still needs to be closed when done).

Nota:

  Se você deseja criar um mapeamento de memória para um arquivo
  gravável e armazenado em buffer, deve usar "flush()" no arquivo
  primeiro. Isso é necessário para garantir que as modificações locais
  nos buffers estejam realmente disponíveis para o mapeamento.

Para as versões Unix e Windows do construtor, *access* pode ser
especificado como um parâmetro opcional de palavra-chave. *access*
aceita um dos quatro valores: "ACCESS_READ", "ACCESS_WRITE" ou
"ACCESS_COPY" para especificar memória somente leitura, gravação ou
cópia na gravação, respectivamente "ACCESS_DEFAULT" para adiar para
*prot*. *access* pode ser usado no Unix e no Windows. Se *access* não
for especificado, o mmap do Windows retornará um mapeamento de
gravação. Os valores iniciais da memória para todos os três tipos de
acesso são obtidos do arquivo especificado. A atribuição a um mapa de
memória "ACCESS_READ" gera uma exceção "TypeError". A atribuição a um
mapa de memória "ACCESS_WRITE" afeta a memória e o arquivo subjacente.
A atribuição a um mapa de memória "ACCESS_COPY" afeta a memória, mas
não atualiza o arquivo subjacente.

Alterado na versão 3.7: Adicionada a constante "ACCESS_DEFAULT".

Para mapear a memória anônima, -1 deve ser passado como o fileno junto
com o comprimento.

class mmap.mmap(fileno, length, tagname=None, access=ACCESS_DEFAULT[, offset])

   **(Versão Windows)** Mapeia *length* bytes do arquivo especificado
   pelo identificador de arquivo *fileno* e cria um objeto mmap. Se
   *length* for maior que o tamanho atual do arquivo, o arquivo será
   estendido para conter *length* bytes. Se *length* for "0", o
   tamanho máximo do mapa será o tamanho atual do arquivo, exceto que,
   se o arquivo estiver vazio, o Windows levantará uma exceção (você
   não poderá criar um mapeamento vazio no Windows).

   *tagname*, if specified and not "None", is a string giving a tag
   name for the mapping.  Windows allows you to have many different
   mappings against the same file.  If you specify the name of an
   existing tag, that tag is opened, otherwise a new tag of this name
   is created.  If this parameter is omitted or "None", the mapping is
   created without a name.  Avoiding the use of the *tagname*
   parameter will assist in keeping your code portable between Unix
   and Windows.

   *offset* may be specified as a non-negative integer offset. mmap
   references will be relative to the offset from the beginning of the
   file. *offset* defaults to 0.  *offset* must be a multiple of the
   "ALLOCATIONGRANULARITY".

   Raises an auditing event "mmap.__new__" with arguments "fileno",
   "length", "access", "offset".

class mmap.mmap(fileno, length, flags=MAP_SHARED, prot=PROT_WRITE|PROT_READ, access=ACCESS_DEFAULT[, offset])

   **(Unix version)** Maps *length* bytes from the file specified by
   the file descriptor *fileno*, and returns a mmap object.  If
   *length* is "0", the maximum length of the map will be the current
   size of the file when "mmap" is called.

   *flags* specifies the nature of the mapping. "MAP_PRIVATE" creates
   a private copy-on-write mapping, so changes to the contents of the
   mmap object will be private to this process, and "MAP_SHARED"
   creates a mapping that's shared with all other processes mapping
   the same areas of the file.  The default value is "MAP_SHARED".
   Some systems have additional possible flags with the full list
   specified in MAP_* constants.

   *prot*, if specified, gives the desired memory protection; the two
   most useful values are "PROT_READ" and "PROT_WRITE", to specify
   that the pages may be read or written.  *prot* defaults to
   "PROT_READ | PROT_WRITE".

   *access* may be specified in lieu of *flags* and *prot* as an
   optional keyword parameter.  It is an error to specify both
   *flags*, *prot* and *access*.  See the description of *access*
   above for information on how to use this parameter.

   *offset* may be specified as a non-negative integer offset. mmap
   references will be relative to the offset from the beginning of the
   file. *offset* defaults to 0. *offset* must be a multiple of
   "ALLOCATIONGRANULARITY" which is equal to "PAGESIZE" on Unix
   systems.

   To ensure validity of the created memory mapping the file specified
   by the descriptor *fileno* is internally automatically synchronized
   with the physical backing store on macOS.

   This example shows a simple way of using "mmap":

      import mmap

      # write a simple example file
      with open("hello.txt", "wb") as f:
          f.write(b"Hello Python!\n")

      with open("hello.txt", "r+b") as f:
          # memory-map the file, size 0 means whole file
          mm = mmap.mmap(f.fileno(), 0)
          # read content via standard file methods
          print(mm.readline())  # prints b"Hello Python!\n"
          # read content via slice notation
          print(mm[:5])  # prints b"Hello"
          # update content using slice notation;
          # note that new content must have same size
          mm[6:] = b" world!\n"
          # ... and read again using standard file methods
          mm.seek(0)
          print(mm.readline())  # prints b"Hello  world!\n"
          # close the map
          mm.close()

   "mmap" can also be used as a context manager in a "with" statement:

      import mmap

      with mmap.mmap(-1, 13) as mm:
          mm.write(b"Hello world!")

   Novo na versão 3.2: Suporte a gerenciador de contexto.

   The next example demonstrates how to create an anonymous map and
   exchange data between the parent and child processes:

      import mmap
      import os

      mm = mmap.mmap(-1, 13)
      mm.write(b"Hello world!")

      pid = os.fork()

      if pid == 0:  # In a child process
          mm.seek(0)
          print(mm.readline())

          mm.close()

   Raises an auditing event "mmap.__new__" with arguments "fileno",
   "length", "access", "offset".

   Memory-mapped file objects support the following methods:

   close()

      Closes the mmap. Subsequent calls to other methods of the object
      will result in a ValueError exception being raised. This will
      not close the open file.

   closed

      "True" if the file is closed.

      Novo na versão 3.2.

   find(sub[, start[, end]])

      Returns the lowest index in the object where the subsequence
      *sub* is found, such that *sub* is contained in the range
      [*start*, *end*]. Optional arguments *start* and *end* are
      interpreted as in slice notation. Returns "-1" on failure.

      Alterado na versão 3.5: Writable *bytes-like object* is now
      accepted.

   flush([offset[, size]])

      Flushes changes made to the in-memory copy of a file back to
      disk. Without use of this call there is no guarantee that
      changes are written back before the object is destroyed.  If
      *offset* and *size* are specified, only changes to the given
      range of bytes will be flushed to disk; otherwise, the whole
      extent of the mapping is flushed.  *offset* must be a multiple
      of the "PAGESIZE" or "ALLOCATIONGRANULARITY".

      "None" is returned to indicate success.  An exception is raised
      when the call failed.

      Alterado na versão 3.8: Previously, a nonzero value was returned
      on success; zero was returned on error under Windows.  A zero
      value was returned on success; an exception was raised on error
      under Unix.

   madvise(option[, start[, length]])

      Send advice *option* to the kernel about the memory region
      beginning at *start* and extending *length* bytes.  *option*
      must be one of the MADV_* constants available on the system.  If
      *start* and *length* are omitted, the entire mapping is spanned.
      On some systems (including Linux), *start* must be a multiple of
      the "PAGESIZE".

      Availability: Systems with the "madvise()" system call.

      Novo na versão 3.8.

   move(dest, src, count)

      Copy the *count* bytes starting at offset *src* to the
      destination index *dest*.  If the mmap was created with
      "ACCESS_READ", then calls to move will raise a "TypeError"
      exception.

   read([n])

      Return a "bytes" containing up to *n* bytes starting from the
      current file position. If the argument is omitted, "None" or
      negative, return all bytes from the current file position to the
      end of the mapping. The file position is updated to point after
      the bytes that were returned.

      Alterado na versão 3.3: Argument can be omitted or "None".

   read_byte()

      Returns a byte at the current file position as an integer, and
      advances the file position by 1.

   readline()

      Returns a single line, starting at the current file position and
      up to the next newline. The file position is updated to point
      after the bytes that were returned.

   resize(newsize)

      Resizes the map and the underlying file, if any. If the mmap was
      created with "ACCESS_READ" or "ACCESS_COPY", resizing the map
      will raise a "TypeError" exception.

      **On Windows**: Resizing the map will raise an "OSError" if
      there are other maps against the same named file. Resizing an
      anonymous map (ie against the pagefile) will silently create a
      new map with the original data copied over up to the length of
      the new size.

      Alterado na versão 3.11: Correctly fails if attempting to resize
      when another map is held Allows resize against an anonymous map
      on Windows

   rfind(sub[, start[, end]])

      Returns the highest index in the object where the subsequence
      *sub* is found, such that *sub* is contained in the range
      [*start*, *end*]. Optional arguments *start* and *end* are
      interpreted as in slice notation. Returns "-1" on failure.

      Alterado na versão 3.5: Writable *bytes-like object* is now
      accepted.

   seek(pos[, whence])

      Set the file's current position.  *whence* argument is optional
      and defaults to "os.SEEK_SET" or "0" (absolute file
      positioning); other values are "os.SEEK_CUR" or "1" (seek
      relative to the current position) and "os.SEEK_END" or "2" (seek
      relative to the file's end).

   size()

      Return the length of the file, which can be larger than the size
      of the memory-mapped area.

   tell()

      Returns the current position of the file pointer.

   write(bytes)

      Write the bytes in *bytes* into memory at the current position
      of the file pointer and return the number of bytes written
      (never less than "len(bytes)", since if the write fails, a
      "ValueError" will be raised).  The file position is updated to
      point after the bytes that were written.  If the mmap was
      created with "ACCESS_READ", then writing to it will raise a
      "TypeError" exception.

      Alterado na versão 3.5: Writable *bytes-like object* is now
      accepted.

      Alterado na versão 3.6: The number of bytes written is now
      returned.

   write_byte(byte)

      Write the integer *byte* into memory at the current position of
      the file pointer; the file position is advanced by "1". If the
      mmap was created with "ACCESS_READ", then writing to it will
      raise a "TypeError" exception.


Constantes MADV_*
=================

mmap.MADV_NORMAL
mmap.MADV_RANDOM
mmap.MADV_SEQUENTIAL
mmap.MADV_WILLNEED
mmap.MADV_DONTNEED
mmap.MADV_REMOVE
mmap.MADV_DONTFORK
mmap.MADV_DOFORK
mmap.MADV_HWPOISON
mmap.MADV_MERGEABLE
mmap.MADV_UNMERGEABLE
mmap.MADV_SOFT_OFFLINE
mmap.MADV_HUGEPAGE
mmap.MADV_NOHUGEPAGE
mmap.MADV_DONTDUMP
mmap.MADV_DODUMP
mmap.MADV_FREE
mmap.MADV_NOSYNC
mmap.MADV_AUTOSYNC
mmap.MADV_NOCORE
mmap.MADV_CORE
mmap.MADV_PROTECT
mmap.MADV_FREE_REUSABLE
mmap.MADV_FREE_REUSE

   These options can be passed to "mmap.madvise()".  Not every option
   will be present on every system.

   Availability: Systems with the madvise() system call.

   Novo na versão 3.8.


Constantes MAP_*
================

mmap.MAP_SHARED
mmap.MAP_PRIVATE
mmap.MAP_DENYWRITE
mmap.MAP_EXECUTABLE
mmap.MAP_ANON
mmap.MAP_ANONYMOUS
mmap.MAP_POPULATE
mmap.MAP_STACK
mmap.MAP_ALIGNED_SUPER
mmap.MAP_CONCEAL

   These are the various flags that can be passed to "mmap.mmap()".
   "MAP_ALIGNED_SUPER" is only available at FreeBSD and "MAP_CONCEAL"
   is only available at OpenBSD.  Note that some options might not be
   present on some systems.

   Alterado na versão 3.10: Added "MAP_POPULATE" constant.

   Novo na versão 3.11: Added "MAP_STACK" constant.

   Novo na versão 3.12: Added "MAP_ALIGNED_SUPER" constant. Added
   "MAP_CONCEAL" constant.
